
# Description

This file will contain the basic explanations and important stuff about
processes in Linux.

# What is a process? 

A process is really just a way to talk about an application, shell command or 
something generated by the kernel to achieve something on the system. If
something is getting done, a process is doing it on Linux, some examples are;
our web browser, web server, footprinting scanning and so on. 

# How is a process composed? 

A process is mainly divided in two parts. The first one is the address space, 
which can be a physical memory address that will get something written on it. 
The space that a process can take up on the RAM is it's address space. Now, a
process might not see the absolute addresses, instead it sees a virtual address
that is given to it by the kernel, placing the kernel between the process and 
the hardware. In simple words, what was said in the last few lines is: a process
has some address space that it can use. The second part of each process is 
the kernel data structures that deal with that process, some examples of this
are the tracks of records from the kernel like the owner of a process, what 
process spawned the actual process (might have been initialized by a parent
proces for example), the address space is allowed to write into , the process
priority, how much resources can use, which files and network ports is using 
and which ones is it allowed to use as well as the signal mask.

# Process ID

Each process also has something called process id or PID, this is a unique 
number that is assigned so every single one of them can be identified. In Linux,
the process that always has the PID 1 is init, this is the process that 
triggers the whole system when the machine is turned on. However, there might becases where we have more than one PID of 1 with the init process, this case
mostly corresponds on machines that are using virtualization, on this case we
would have an init process for the host machine (or the bare metal one) and then
the virtualized system init process. 

# Parent and child process management (by the kernel)

In terms of parent processes, it's also important to locate them and be aware
of them because there might be cases where some process is having an unexpected 
behavior, knowing the parent process that triggered the child process could be
useful whether if it's to kill the process or maybe changing its priority. If a
parent process dies or has died when we're looking at the running processes,
all processes without parents are reparented to init.

# UID

The UID of the process is a number that states which user is the owner of a
specific process. 

# EUID

The Effective UID is a way in which we asure that a process has different 
permissions than the ones from the user who spawned it. For example, root
might start a process but we don't always need to give the process root 
permissions because it can do something malicious or maybe it was spawned by
mistake. The EUID sets the permissions of the process that are not strictly 
linked to the user who started that process. 

# Niceness

When we talk about the niceness, we're referring to the priority of a process.
On this case, the way it works on Linux is answering the question: *How nice
is this process being with others?*. This is because the lower the niceness
number is, the higher is the priority. In Linux, the higher priority is -20 and 
the lowest priority is 20. 




